Assignment 9: Book Code 2 - Encoding

Using your book code from the last assignment, create a program that can encode a message as
well as decode a message. You should use a linked list of code structs to hold the code as you
encode the message. In order to encode the message, you will need to take one character of the
message at a time, and randomly find a reference to that character somewhere in the book. To
do this in a somewhat random manner, generate a random number to select one of the chapters in
the book. Then generate a random number to select one of the paragraphs in the chapter.
Make sure that you do not attempt to access an area that is outside of the memory you have
allocated. Continue this process until you find a random letter. Check this letter to see
if it matches the letter of your message. If it does not, continue on letter by letter,
line by line, paragraph by paragraph, chapter by chapter, until you find a letter that
matches. You need to ensure that you handle end of lines, paragraphs, chapters, and
books appropriately. You should also check to see that you do not enter an infinite
loop in the event that the character does not exist in your book. When you find a
character that matches, create a structure that has the character, and the chapter,
paragraph, line, and letter reference for that character. Add this structure to your
array. When you have completed the encoding of the message, use your decoder to verify
that the decoded message is the same as the message that you started with. When this
is verified, print the encoded message.



Assignment 8: Book Code 1 - Decoding

A classic book code uses references to pages, lines, and characters of a particular book to
encrypt a message. For instance, assuming that you and a friend had agreed on a certain
version of Melville’s Moby Dick, you could secretly pass a message like this:

            256 12 18
            127 11 8
            104 18 14
            ...

Where the first number is the page number, the second number is the line
number, and the third number is the letter within the line. Because you never
use the same letter twice, the code is virtually unbreakable (one would need
to exhaustively search every book ever published – which is actually getting
easier year by year). 

We are going to attempt to parse a book code using a text formatted book. In
our version, we will have letters, lines, paragraphs, and chapters. I will
give you a text version of a book and an encoded message and ask you to write
a C program that decrypts the message.

This program will make use of pointers rather than arrays as you are to save
the entire book in memory in the smallest space available. At each “level”, we
will have a list of pointers to manage the text of the book. We will define a
“list” to be an allocated (malloc) space of memory that contains a NULL
terminated sequence of pointers of the same type. The top level list, called
book, will be a list of pointers to chapter lists. The chapter lists will in
turn be lists of pointers to paragraph lists. The paragraph lists will contain
a sequence of line pointers, each of which are pointers to a NULL terminated
list of characters (or a string) that holds the text of each line. The line
lists contain (char *) pointers; the paragraph lists will contain (char **)
pointers (or pointers to pointers of type char); the chapter lists have (char
***) and so on.

When building up each section, you are to use a function that has a defined
array within it to build up the sequence of elements. When the sequence has
been built in the array, you need to malloc a list, and copy the array to the
list and return the list. You cannot simply use the array with the function as
that memory will be freed when the function exits. This method allows us to
minimize the size of each list rather than having a maximally sized array for
every element within our structure.

You should begin the program by writing a simple get_line function. Test this
by iterating through an input file and calling the get_line function followed
by a print_line function to ensure that everything is working. From here, move
up to the paragraph with a get_paragraph function and a print_paragraph
function. You can then move to the chapter and then the book. 

Each chapter will be defined by text in the first column (typically a roman
numeral). All subsequent lines within the chapter will be indented a couple of
spaces. Use the newline to delimit lines and consecutive newlines (or lines
with only whitespace) to delimit paragraphs. I will supply you with a code
that you will need to decrypt to successfully complete the assignment. 

